wiki/1

§ Fediverse ID Syntax

⸺ by Charles Iliya Krempeaux

Currently there is no canonical syntax for a **Fediverse ID**.
However, we can infer a syntax for the **Fediverse ID** given that it has to be used with [[webfinger]].

§§ De Facto

Currently, the syntax of a **Fediverse ID** is whatever each [[fediverse/software]] supports.
Which could be different from each other!
And could even change over time!

The final say for what is and is not a valid **Fediverse ID** are the many implementations of [[webfinger]] in-the-wild for all the different [[fediverse/software]] out there.
Which again could be different from each other!
And again could even change over time!

The reason being because, from a technical point-of-view, a **Fediverse ID** is turned into an [[acct-uri]] and then resolved with [[webfinger]].

But, having said that, we can infer a //minimum syntax// and a //maximum syntax// for what should be considered a valid **Fediverse ID**.
I.e., the syntax that any implmentation for **Fediverse ID**s //should// support.
But, to say it explicitly, an implemention for **Fediverse ID**s //could// support more than just what is given by thes syntaxes.

Perhaps oddly, the **maximal syntax** is simpler than the **minimal syntax**.

§§ Maximal Fediverse ID Syntax

An [[acct-uri]] has some constraints according to the IETF RFC-7565 (The 'acct' URI Scheme) specification.
But — software, such as [[fediverse/software]], don't have to implement those constraints.
I.e., they can accept more than just what IETF RFC-7565 (The 'acct' URI Scheme) specifies.

Given that, here is a more //maximal// syntax for a **Fediverse ID**:


	fediverseID = "@" [ actor ] "@" host

Where, given that ‘NOTATSIGN’ (i.e., //not at-sign//) is any Unicode character that isn't the U+0040 ("@") at-signs —

‘actor’ is defined as:

	actor       = NOTATSIGN *NOTATSIGN      ; one or more characters that are not an at-sign ("@") (U+0040)

And ‘host’ is defined as:

	host        = NOTATSIGN *NOTATSIGN      ; one or more characters that are not an at-sign ("@") (U+0040)

Note in this //maximal// **Fediverse ID** syntax ‘actor’ is optional.
But when ‘actor’ isn't included there still needs to be 2 U+0040 ("@") at-signs.

Here are some **Fediverse ID**s that fit this //maximal// **Fediverse ID** syntax:

• ``@joeblow@example.com``
• ``@janedoe@something.example``
• ``@reiver@mastodon.social``
• ``@reiver@greatape.social``
• ``@dariush@reiver.link``
• ``@malekeh@reiver.link``

• ``@دورود@example.com``

• ``@@example.com``
• ``@@something.example``
• ``@@mastodon.social``
• ``@@greatape.social``
• ``@@reiver.link``

• ``@🙂@example.com``
• ``@hello world :-)@something.example``
• ``@(╯°□°)╯︵ ┻━┻@mastodon.social``
• ``@😈❤️@greatape.social``
• ``@✪@reiver.link``
• ``@awesome 🙂@reiver.link``

• ``@.@example.com``
• ``@joe.blow@example.com``
• ``@jane.doe@something.example``
• ``@.reiver@mastodon.social``
• ``@reiver.@greatape.social``
• ``@d.a.r.i.u.s.h@reiver.link``
• ``@.m.a.l.e.k.e.h.@reiver.link``

• ``@joeblow+@example.com``
• ``@janedoe+@something.example``
• ``@reiver+@mastodon.social``
• ``@reiver+@greatape.social``
• ``@dariush+@reiver.link``
• ``@malekeh+@reiver.link``

• ``@joeblow+tech@example.com``
• ``@janedoe+psychology@something.example``
• ``@reiver+fediverse@mastodon.social``
• ``@reiver+allyourbases@greatape.social``
• ``@dariush+one@reiver.link``
• ``@malekeh+two@reiver.link``

• ``@joeblow/tech@example.com``
• ``@janedoe/psychology@something.example``
• ``@reiver/fediverse@mastodon.social``
• ``@reiver/allyourbases@greatape.social``
• ``@dariush/one@reiver.link``
• ``@malekeh/two@reiver.link``

§§ acct URI

Part of the process of **resolving** a **Fediverse ID** transfomrs a **Fediverse ID** into an [[acct-uri]].
(And then using that [[acct-uri]] version of the **Fediverse ID** makes a request to [[webfinger]].)

Here is an example of transforming a **Fediverse ID** into an [[acct-uri]]:

	     at sign
	       ↓
	       @joeblow@example.com ← Fediverse ID
	
	   acct:joeblow@example.com ← acct URI
	       ↑
	  no at sign

A client would then make a request to:

	https://example.com/.well-known/host-meta

To discover what the (template) URL for [[webfinger]] is.
And then, for example, if it is at:

	https://example.com/.well-known/webfinger?resource={uri}

Then make a request to:

	https://example.com/.well-known/webfinger?resource=acct:joeblow@example.com

This [[webfinger]] implementation //could// accept whatever it wants.
It doesn't have to restrict itself to what is specified by the IETF RFC-7565 (The 'acct' URI Scheme) specification.
BUT —

§§ Minimal Fediverse ID Syntax

Let us consider what a //minimal// **Fediverse ID** syntax would be if we constrained ourselves to what the IETF RFC-7565 (The 'acct' URI Scheme) specificaiton says.

Here is what we get:

	fediverseID = "@" actor "@" host

Where “actor” is defined as:

	actor       = unreserved / sub-delims 0*( unreserved / pct-encoded / sub-delims )
	
	unreserved  = ALPHA / DIGIT / "-" / "." / "_" / "~"
	
	sub-delims  = "!" / "$" / "&" / "'" / "(" / ")" / "*" / "+" / "," / ";" / "="
	
	pct-encoded = "%" HEXDIG HEXDIG
	
	ALPHA       =  %x41-5A / %x61-7A   ; A-Z / a-z
	
	DIGIT       =  %x30-39             ; 0-9
	
	HEXDIG      =  DIGIT / "A" / "B" / "C" / "D" / "E" / "F"

(Again note that an implementation //could// support more characters for “actor” than what is given by this definition.)

And “host” is defined as

	host        = IP-literal / IPv4address / reg-name
	
	IP-literal  = "[" ( IPv6address / IPvFuture  ) "]"
	
	IPv6address =                            6( h16 ":" ) ls32
	            /                       "::" 5( h16 ":" ) ls32
	            / [               h16 ] "::" 4( h16 ":" ) ls32
	            / [ *1( h16 ":" ) h16 ] "::" 3( h16 ":" ) ls32
	            / [ *2( h16 ":" ) h16 ] "::" 2( h16 ":" ) ls32
	            / [ *3( h16 ":" ) h16 ] "::"    h16 ":"   ls32
	            / [ *4( h16 ":" ) h16 ] "::"              ls32
	            / [ *5( h16 ":" ) h16 ] "::"              h16
	            / [ *6( h16 ":" ) h16 ] "::"
	
	h16         = 1*4HEXDIG
	
	ls32        = ( h16 ":" h16 ) / IPv4address
	
	IPvFuture   = "v" 1*HEXDIG "." 1*( unreserved / sub-delims / ":" )
	
	IPv4address = dec-octet "." dec-octet "." dec-octet "." dec-octet
	
	dec-octet   = DIGIT                 ; 0-9
	            / %x31-39 DIGIT         ; 10-99
	            / "1" 2DIGIT            ; 100-199
	            / "2" %x30-34 DIGIT     ; 200-249
	            / "25" %x30-35          ; 250-255
	
	reg-name    = *( unreserved / pct-encoded / sub-delims )
