wiki/1

§ Chris Trottier (Fediverse, Who is Who)

⸺ by Charles Iliya Krempeaux

**Chris Trottier**, who goes by the nickname **@atomicpoet**, is a notable person on the Fediverse because —

• he is an influencer on the Fediverse with a large following — for which **Chris Trottier** talks about the Fediverse and social-media (beyond the Fediverse) in general,
• [[fedivese/enterprise/spacehost]] — a fully-managed hosting provider for all the Fediverse, that he co-founded with [[fediverse/person/charles-iliya-krempeaux]] and [[fediverse/person/massoud-seifi]],
• [[fediverse/software/greatape]] — open-source Fediverse software focused on audio- and video- conversation, which he co-founded with [[fediverse/person/charles-iliya-krempeaux]] and [[fediverse/person/massoud-seifi]],
• [[fediverse/software/firefish]] — open-source Fediverse software focused on micro-blogging, which **Chris Trottier** works on with [[fediverse/person/kainoa-kanter]], and for which Chris does advocacy and marketing.

§§ Sysop

**Chris Trottier** is the **system operator** (**sysop**) for the following Fediverse servers:

• ``atomicpoet.org`` ([[fediverse/software/akkoma]], previoulsy [[fediverse/software/pleroma]])
• ``peerverse.space`` ([[pixelfed]])

**Chris Trottier** also used to be the **system operator** (**sysop**) of:

• firefish.social ([[fediverse/software/firefish]])

§§ Fediverse IDs

**Chris Trottier**'s [[fediverse/id]]'s are:

• ``@atomicpoet@atomicpoet.org``
• ``@atomicpoet@peerverse.space``

**Chris Trottier**'s old and no longer used [[fediverse/id]]'s are:

• ``@atomicpoet@firefish.city``
• ``@atomicpoet@mastodon.social``

§§ Work History

As of 2023, **Chris Trottier** has almost two decades professional experience — entrepreneur, advisor, executive (**Chief Marketing Officer** (**CMO**)), business person, marketer, customer support specialist, QA specialist, manager.

**Chris Trottier** is **Chief Marketing Officer** (**CMO**) at **#SpaceHost**.
Was head of QA at Railtown Ventures.
Was **Chief Marketing Officer** (**CMO**) at the Boldkick marketing agency.
Was **Chief Marketing Officer** (**CMO**) at the social-media network Manyone.
Was head of customer support at Hootsuite, and later moved into marketing.
Chris was also a customer support specialist at Microsoft.

**Chris Trottier** is veteran of the social-media industry.
With [[fediverse/person/charles-iliya-krempeaux]] and others, Chris previously created what was at one time the most popular Twitter app — i.e., Hootsuite.
The app ([[hootsuite]]) was later extended (mostly by [[fediverse/person/charles-iliya-krempeaux]]) to support Facebook, LinkedIn, Instagram, and other social-media networks.
**Chris Trottier** has experience with both the consumer-side, and the enterprise-side of social-media.
