wiki/1

§ acct URI

⸺ by Charles Iliya Krempeaux

An **acct URI** looks like this:

	acct:joeblow@example.com

Typically an **acct URI** is used to turn an **e-mail address** or [[fediverse/id]] into a URL / URI.
(There are reasons why one might want to turn a pointer or identifier that isn' a URL / URI into a URL / URI.)

For example, this [[fediverse/id]]:

	@reiver@reiver.link

Gets turned into this **acct URI**:

	acct:reiver@reiver.link

§§ Why acct URIs

The TL;DR of //why acct URIs‽// is — 

• … because people seem to be comfortable with something that looks more like an **e-mail address** or as **username** as an **identifier** but the technology only understands URLs and URIs; so you still have to turn things that look like **e-mail address** and **usernames** into URLs and URIs; which is what **acct URI** is; and “no”, mailto URI won't work;
• … because a new URI scheme makes it easy to identify that it should be used with [[webfinger]] (rather than being able to do something else with it).

There are many conceptual places where some kind of an **identifier** is a core part of it.

For example, on any social protocol I am aware of, there is some type of notion of an **identifier**.

BBS echo-mail has them.
BBS net-mail has them.
Internet e-mail has them.
Internet finger-protocol has them.
Internet gemini-protocol has them.
(Multi-User) Linux &amp; Unix operating systems have them.
Twitter has them.
Etc.

The **identifier** enables you to send messages, to share photos &amp; images, to control data, etc.

With a single centralized system, dealing with **identifiers** is comparatively more straight-forward.
But when dealing with a distributed, decentralized, or federated system, things can get more complex — for example, how do you point to and interact with someone or something from a different node on the network?
Etc.

Experience (with OpenID and other systems) seems to suggest that (at least currently) most people are more comfortable with using something that looks more like an **e-mail address** or as **username** as an **identifier** rather than a URL or a URI.
For example — 

• joeblow@example.com
• jandoe@something.example
• actor@host

[[fediverse/id]]s look very similar to e-mail addresses.
They just have a U+0040 at-sign ("@") at the beginning of them:

• @joeblow@example.com
• @jandoe@something.example
• @actor@host

But [[webfinger]] only understand URLs and URIs.
So those have to be turned into URLs or URIs.
Which, usually, is very straight-forward:

• acct:joeblow@example.com
• acct:jandoe@something.example
• acct:actor@host

§§ Fediverse Users

Most users of the **Fediverse** aren't aware of **acct URI**s.
And really, they don't have to be aware of them!

§§ Fediverse Programmers

But behind the scenes, **acct URI**s are used by [[fediverse/software]].

Behind the scenes, a [[fediverse/id]] is turned into a **acct URI**, and then that **acct URI** is used to in a request to [[webfinger]] .

If you are a **programmer** / **software engineer** / **software developer** / etc, then you may need to be aware of **acct URI**s, and have some level of understanding of them.

§§ Resolving

Part of the process of **resolving** a **Fediverse ID** transfomrs a **Fediverse ID** into an [[acct-uri]].
(And then using that [[acct-uri]] version of the **Fediverse ID** makes a request to [[webfinger]].)

Here is an example of transforming a **Fediverse ID** into an [[acct-uri]]:

	     at sign
	       ↓
	       @joeblow@example.com ← Fediverse ID
	
	   acct:joeblow@example.com ← acct URI
	       ↑
	  no at sign

A client would then make a request to:

	https:/((/))example.com/.well-known/host-meta

To discover what the (template) URL for [[webfinger]] is.
And then, for example, if it is at:

	https:/((/))example.com/.well-known/webfinger?resource={uri}

Then make a request to:

	https:/((/))example.com/.well-known/webfinger?resource=acct:joeblow@example.com

This [[webfinger]] implementation //could// accept whatever it wants.
It doesn't have to restrict itself to what is specified by the **IETF RFC-7565** (The 'acct' URI Scheme) specification.
BUT —

§§ See Also

For more information on **acct URI** see:

• [[ietf/rfc-7565]]
