wiki/1

§ Fediverse

⸺ by Charles Iliya Krempeaux

The **Fediverse** is a federated social-media network.

The **Fediverse** is to social-media what the Internet is to computer-networks.
I.e., just like the Internet is a network of networks, the Fediverse is a network of social-media networks.

§§ Fediverse Simile

//What// the **Fediverse** //is// is more obvious once you start using it, but —

This is a simile that helps some people understand //what// the **Fediverse** //is// —

The **Fediverse** is like e-mail, but where you posts are public (rather than private like they are with e-mail).

§§ Mastodon

[[fediverse/software/mastodon]] is the most well-known part of the **Fediverse**
—
due to attention it has been getting from news media and TV.

[[fediverse/software/mastodon]] is //not// a social-media network //per se//.
[[fediverse/software/mastodon]] is software that anyone can use to create their own social-media network.
I.e., there are many many [[fediverse/software/mastodon]]-based social-media networks.

As of 2023, there are tens of thousands of social-media networks that are using the [[fediverse/software/mastodon]] software.
And that number has been predicted to grow to the hundreds of thousands in the near future!

But what is different between this wave of social-media networks and the previous wave of social-media networks is
—
these thousands and thousands of [[fediverse/software/mastodon]] based social-media networks **federate**.

**federation (noun): any group formed from separate entities or objects.**

§§ More Fediverse

But [[fediverse/software/mastodon]] based social-media networks don't just **federate** with other [[fediverse/software/mastodon]] based social-media networks
—
they **federate** with //any// software that "speaks" the language of the **Fediverse** — i.e., [[fediverse/activitypub]] and others.
These other **Fediverse** software includes:

• [[fediverse/software/akkoma]]
• [[fediverse/software/bookwyrm]]
• [[fediverse/software/castopod]]
• [[fediverse/software/firefish]] (previously called “[[fediverse/software/calckey]]”)
• [[fediverse/software/forgejo]]
• [[fediverse/software/friendica]]
• [[fediverse/software/funkwhale]]
• [[fediverse/software/gitea]]
• [[fediverse/software/gnu social]]
• [[fediverse/software/gotosocial]]
• [[fediverse/software/greatape]]
• [[fediverse/software/guppe]]
• [[fediverse/software/kbin]]
• [[fediverse/software/lemmy]]
• [[fediverse/software/misskey]]
• [[fediverse/software/mobilizon]]
• [[fediverse/software/nextcloud]]
• [[fediverse/software/owncast]]
• [[fediverse/software/peertube]]
• [[fediverse/software/pixelfed]]
• [[fediverse/software/pleroma]]
• [[fediverse/software/plume]]
• [[fediverse/software/postfreely]]
• [[fediverse/software/postmarks]]
• [[fediverse/software/socialhome]]
• [[fediverse/software/writefreely]]
• **and more!**

At last count there are **about 40 different //Fediverse// software**.
Many of them provide a very different experience from the others.

• [[fediverse/software/akkoma]], [[fediverse/software/mastodon]], [[fediverse/software/firefish]], [[fediverse/software/pleroma]] and others are Twitter-like.
• [[fediverse/software/pixelfed]] is Instagram-like.
• [[fediverse/software/peertube]] is YouTube-like.
• [[fediverse/software/friendica]] and others are Facebook-like.
• [[fediverse/software/lemmy]] and others are Reddit-like.
• [[fediverse/software/nextcloud]] is Google Drive-like.
• [[fediverse/software/owncast]] is Twitch-like.
• [[fediverse/software/forgejo]] and [[fediverse/software/gitea]] are GitHub-like.
• Etc.

Yet, despite all these different user-experiences all these different social-media networks **federate**.

§ Etymology of ‘Fediverse’

The word “Fediverse” is a combination of (a portmanteau of) the words “federation” and “universe”, or “federated” and “universe”.

§§ Fediverse Subjects

More information about the **Fediverse** can be found under these (broad) subjects:

• [[fediverse/software]]
• [[fediverse/technology]]
• [[fediverse/who-is-who]]

§§ See Also

• [[at-protocol]]
• [[bluesky-network]]
• [[farcaster]]
• [[finger-protocol]]
• [[lens-protocol]]
• [[nostr]]
• [[socialfi]]
